debrief-1

Earth's Life and Into Space

	The observable universe is a vast space full of endless possibilities. Based off of observations from the Hubble Space Telescope, it is estimated that there are approximately 2 trillion galaxies in the observable universe. Every day new discoveries are being found by Scientists, as we continue to discover more of what the universe contains.

	Due to large distances between galaxies and the finite speed of light, we are unable to directly observe the universe in real time. When observing distant objects in the universe, we are actually observing those objects as they appeared in the past. The further away they are, the further back in time they are observed. 

	The Earth is located in a fascinating zone called the 'Goldilocks zone' in our solar system. This means that it exists within a habitable zone around our sun, where conditions are just right for liquid water to exist on the planet's surface. Water is essential in facilitating a wide variety of chemical reactions necessary for biological life. Although it is considered plausible for life forms to center around methane for example.

	Our planet has existed for over four and a half billion years. Since then, life has undergone a variety of changes, with mass extinction events being one of them. Mass extinction events typically occur when the conditions for most of life on earth become inhospitable for most species living on it at a given geological time period. These mass extinctions can be broken down into the Ordovician, Devonian, Permian, Triassic, and Cretaceous. The Cretaceous mass extinction event is well known for being responsible for the extinction of the dinosaurs.

	Although not technically considered a mass extinction event, the great Oxidation event occurred during the Proterozoic when Photosynthetic life began to rapidly produce Oxygen levels that were toxic to anaerobic microbial life that constituted most life at the time. This was before most life as we knew it existed, early in Earth's history.  

